time in months a trickle of Aid has
arrived in Northern Gaza without
incident 13 trucks delivered supplies
including flour to jabalia and to Gaza
City volunteers and Community leaders
coordinated with the UN to secure the
entry of the Convoy eight organizations
say this delivery is a test to see if
they can conduct more on Sunday a
growing number of Palestinians are dying
of hunger in the north where the UN says
famine is taking hold one in three
children in Northern Gaza one in three
children under the age of two is acutely
malnourished that's according to the
United Nations some food Parcels have
been delivered but it's nowhere near
enough to meet the needs of millions of
Palestinians as Michael Appo
reports 200 tons of Aid is brought asore
this represents only a fraction of
what's needed to stop people starving in
Gaza the situation is so bad that no one
can imagine it and the ship even if it
helps will be a drop in the ocean
because the entire region is in need of
Aid and people are competing to take aid
from the
shore air drops have caused chaos with
several people killed by Falling pallets
when parachutes failed to
open we keep waiting for Aid this is not
a solution whether by ship or by plane
we saw planes dropping Aid and people
fighting over it there are some children
who drowned in the sea for
aid aid agencies are warning nearly
600,000 people are on the brink of
famine the living situation is very bad
we cannot eat or drink and Aid is very
scarce they told us there is Aid in the
South but it is very scarce the ship
Open Arms arrived from Cyprus on Friday
the US charity behind the delivery
acknowledges that the best way to get
desperately needed Aid in is for Israel
to open the land Corridor our first boat
arrived there and we are ready to
continue scaling up this and what we see
and we Invision is having a highway of
Aid going to gasa but of course we need
to keep opening the L Crossing and
having more accents because not enough a
there is not enough Aid right now
arriving gasa with Israel's prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu approving
plans for an assault on the southern
city of Rafa which is Sheltering more
than a million displaced people any Aid
deliveries may be too late
Mike leppel Al
jazer Federico Desi is the Middle East
director at the aid group humanity and
inclusion sir you're joining us from
Aman this hour thank you for your time
it's been months as we reported since a
trucks were able to reach Northern Gaza
without any incident we know how many of
them have been shot at uh in the in the
past few weeks this one reached Northern
Gaza without incident I wanted to start
with your take on
that well I think it's a it's a positive
sign but it's still drop in the ocean of
needs in Northern
Gaza um what we need is really a much
larger access for hundreds of trucks
every day in 200 and Northern
Gaza uh the accesses are there I uh we
have the possibility to bring trucks
from Egypt we have possibility to bring
trucks from Israel it's a matter of
approvals U it's a matter of approvals
and it's a matter of coordination with
the humanitarian system with United
Nations with the community on the
grounds to make sure that this happen
safely yeah as you say the aid is there
the trucks are standing by at the border
have been for weeks if not months Israel
controls how much Aid goes into Gaza how
much where when how Etc we also know the
Palestinians have died of malnutrition
in Northern Gaza none of that is a
surprise because eight agencies had been
warning of famine and starvation for
months when you connect all those dots
is it fair to say that Israel has
deliberately starved Northern
Gaza
well I think Israel is putting up a lot
of uh unnecessary harders and
constraints and and this might amount to
the use of starvation as weapon of War
as you as you mentioned um there's been
an order by the international C of
justice that requires Israel to ensure
unimpeded uh Aid to hold the Gaza Strip
uh and I think this has not been fully
respected in the in the past months and
a half
um we we really need to see the
International Community putting more
pressure and we need Israel to abide by
its obligation open all the borders open
all the potential Crossing points and
allow a much larger flow of access to a
as you say okay so you you speak of
international pressure this uh this
Convoy that we saw reach Northern Gaza
without incident for the first time in
months what is your what is your read on
why Israel then allowed that to happen
do you think it's International pressure
do you think it's a bandaid do you think
this is for public consumption because
it plays better on the news to allow
some Aid in how do you look at
it
well it's hard to know it's not up to me
to judge uh on on the exact reasons but
I think that could happen tens of times
every day we could have literally
hundred of trucks going from Southern G
to Northern Gaza we could have hundred
of trucks going from Jerusalem and
from the Israeli Coast into Northern
Gaza directly uh it's all in Israel's
power to to facilitate that we also need
uh the bombing to stop we need an
immediate safe fire because part of the
insecurity and part of the reason
convoys have not been able to uh to
operate safely and to move safely is
also the fact that the conflict is
continuing that Earth strikes are
happening everywhere they nowhere is
safe in Gaza and this is also hampering
the ability of International
organizations to to deliver Aid it's
forcing to cancel uh some convoys to
postpone shipments to withdraw stuff
from some exposed areas so anyy fire is
also a key PR condition to make sure
that we can scale up Aid all over Gaza
can you talk about the long-term impact
uh the long-term effects of the last
five months of War on Gaza I mean when a
territory and a population have been of
course killed in great numbers and when
there's been this level of Destruction
dismantling of social structures the
health care etc etc can Gaza ever get
back on its feet to what it was before
what would that look
like well I think the impact has been
massive catastrophic I mean we lack the
words to describe it uh there have been
you know more than 30,000 people killed
more than 70,000 people injured
thousands of people have lost limbs uh
and uh somewhere between a third and a
half of buildings and houses in Gaza
have been damaged or
destroyed uh I think Gaza can be brought
back and life can return as normal but
it takes an imire it takes full access
and it will take years of effort uh by
the Palestinians and by the
International Community to to rebuild
and the only way to rebuild in a
sustainable way is also to address the
root causes of this conflict and make
sure that that this is the last war and
there is some form of agreement and
sustainable peace and dignity for the
Palestinians for the Israelis as well
and stability across the region right
Federico Desi Middle East director of
the aid group humanity and inclusion
thank you for your time this hour